Iran. J. Chem. Chem. Eng. 
Research Article 
Vol. 36, No. 5, 2017 
 
149 
 
 
Experimental Determination of Continuous Phase 
Overall Mass Transfer Coefficients  
Case Study: Kühni Extraction Column 
 
 
Asadollahzadeh, Mehdi*+ 
Department of Chemical Engineering, Iran University of Science and Technology (IUST),  
P.O. Box 16765-163 Tehran, I.R. IRAN 
 
Torkaman, Rezvan; Torab-Mostaedi, Meisam 
Materials and Nuclear Fuel Research School, Nuclear Science and Technology Research Institute,  
P.O. Box 11365-8486 Tehran, I.R. IRAN 
 
 
ABSTRACT: Experimental data obtained in a pilot-scale Kühni liquid-liquid extraction column 
were used to obtain. In this study, volumetric overall mass transfer coefficients were measured  
and correlated under different operating variables in a 113 mm diameter Kühni column. Both  
mass transfer directions are considered in the experiments.  The effect of operating parameters  
on the volumetric overall mass transfer coefficients has been investigated. According to obtained results, 
mass transfer performance is strongly dependent on rotor speed and mass transfer direction, 
although only slightly dependent on phase flow rates. A novel empirical correlation is developed  
for prediction of overall continuous phase Sherwood number based on dispersed phase holdup, 
Reynolds number and mass transfer direction. The proposed correlations based on dimensionless 
numbers can be considered as a useful tool for the possible scale up of the Kühni column. 
 
 
KEYWORDS: Kühni column; Overall mass transfer coefficients; Mass transfer direction; 
Sherwood number. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Liquid-liquid extraction or solvent extraction is  
a separation process which is based on the different 
distribution of the components to be separated between 
two liquid phases. It depends on the mass transfer of  
the component to be extracted from a first liquid phase  
to a second one [1, 2].  
Different types of liquid-liquid columns are in use 
nowadays, which can be classified into two main  
 
 
 
categories: agitated (RDC, ORC & Kühni) and pulsed 
(packed, sieve plate & disc and doughnut) columns [3-6]. 
The Kühni contactor represents a logical development 
of the RDC and ORC columns, in which the baffled 
impellers of the latter are replaced by the unbaffled 
double entry turbines, and the annular partition plates 
between stages in the former are replaced by the 
perforated stator plates [7]. 
 
 
 
* To whom correspondence should be addressed. 
+ E-mail: mehdiasadollahzadeh@alumni.iust.ac.ir 
1021-9986/2017/5/149-161 
     13/$/6.30 
 
