Iran. J. Chem. Chem. Eng. 
Asadollahzadeh M. et al. 
Vol. 36, No. 5, 2017 
 
150 
In most industrial extraction equipment, one phase  
is dispersed as a swarm in a second continuous phase. 
This method of contact has the advantage of providing a large 
interfacial area per unit volume for the mass transfer [8, 9]. 
The design and scale up of an extractor needs  
the calculation of two independent parameters including 
the cross-sectional area and the height of the column.  
The first one is required to accommodate the desired flows 
without flooding and the second one should be 
determined to reach the appropriate performance of 
extraction columns [10]. 
Therefore, knowledge of mass transfer performance  
is of fundamental importance for the design and 
development of practical extraction columns. Mixing  
is often applied to the extraction columns such as RDC, 
Kühni, and ORC columns in order to improve the phase 
contact. The performance of the apparatus is often 
ameliorated by the use of impellers. The agitation 
modifies the apparatus hydrodynamics by inducing 
turbulence in the flow thus improving the interphase 
contact and intensifying the mass transfer [11, 12]. 
The knowledge of axial mixing in extraction column 
is necessary for understanding the fundamental processes 
involved in the mass transfer. Failure to account for axial 
mixing may lead to large errors in column dimensions.  
It has been reported that axial dispersion in extraction columns 
lowers the process efficiency as much as 30% [13]. 
Use axial mixing or backflow model for design and 
scale-up is now developed for determination of height of 
extraction column. In this method, one parameter is 
considered for all deviations from the ideal plug flow 
conditions [14]. 
The investigation has been focused to study the axial 
dispersion in continuous phase of liquid–liquid extraction 
columns such as spray towers [15-17], reciprocating plate 
extraction columns [18, 19] and pulsed sieve plate 
extraction columns [20, 21]. Although, a few studies  
can be found in which this effect has been taken into account. 
Determining mass transfer coefficient in an extractor 
is difficult due to significant uncertainty. Although,  
the Kühni was applied appropriately for a number  
of separation processes, limited experimental data  
are available from the literature on the mass transfer 
performance of Kühni extraction columns. 
This research work examines the ability of an axial 
dispersion model with correlations to predict the 
performance of a Kühni column.  New correlations  
are proposed to describe the effects of agitation conditions, 
phase velocities, physical properties of the liquid-liquid 
system on the overall mass transfer coefficients. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL SECTION 
Description of the Equipment 
A pilot scale unit of Kühni extraction column  
was constructed. Internal diameter of Kühni contactor is 
113 mm and it has 10 stages. Agitation at each stage  
is achieved with 50 mm diameter shrouded six-blade 
turbine agitator with an accurate speed control.  
The interface location of the two phases at the top  
of the heavy-phase inlet and under the light-phase outlet 
in the upper settler was automatically controlled by an optical 
sensor. A solenoid valve (a normally closed type)  
was provided at the outlet stream of the heavy phase. 
When the interface location was meant to change, the optical 
sensor sent a signal to the solenoid valve and the heavy 
phase was allowed to leave the column by opening  
the diaphragm of the solenoid valve. The light phase  
was allowed to leave the column via an overflow.  
A schematic diagram of the experimental apparatus  
is shown in Fig. 1. The geometrical data of the investigated 
extraction column are given in Table 1. 
 
Materials Used 
All 
experiments 
were 
conducted 
at 
ambient 
temperature, using a liquid–liquid system according to 
the recommendations of the European Federation of 
Chemical Engineering [22]. The system was toluene–
acetone-water. The experiments were carried out in both 
mass transfer directions. In all of the experiments, dilute 
solutions were investigated with approximately 3.5 wt% 
acetone as transferred solute in the organic or aqueous 
phase. 
The physical properties of these systems are listed in 
Table 2. Technical-grade solvents of at least 99.5 wt% 
purity were used as the dispersed phase and distilled 
water was used as the continuous phase.  
 
Analytic Procedure 
In each experiment the following variables were 
measured:  
(1) Before starting each run, the aqueous and organic 
phases were first mutually saturated, after which acetone 
