4.5  Internals
63
reached for all types of column configurations after a minimum of five column volumes was
replaced.
The concentration of the solute in the continuous and the dispersed phase was determined at the
phase inlets and outlets as well as at three positions within the column. To obtain single-phase
samples from the two-phase mixture, measuring probes with cylindrical porous filter elements
were used, see figure (4.8). Due to the different wettability of teflon and stainless steel, single-
phase samples could be obtained by adjusting the filter element material and by low suction
flow rates. The advantage of the cylindrical form is that the whole filter is always wetted with
one liquid (organic or aqueous) independent of the type of column and operating mode. In this
way, single-phase samples are obtained in columns even at high levels of energy input, for
instance, in Kühni-extractors with high rotational speeds.
4.5
Internals
In the mini plants and the swarm extractors, four different types of internals were installed. For
pulsed experiments, different types of sieve trays and a structured packing (Montz-Pak B1-350)
were used. The investigations in agitated columns were carried out with two different types of
agitators: rotating discs and Kühni blade agitators. The agitated compartments (height = 50 mm,
relative free cross-sectional stator area = 40 %) were the same for both types of agitators.
Figure (4.9) illustrates the compartments that were installed inside the columns. Geometric data
of the internals are listed in table (A.1) in the appendix, see chapter A. 
Figure 4.8: Measuring probe for different porous filter elements to obtain single-phase
concentration samples within the two-phase flow (porous teflon filter elements
are preferentially wetted by organic liquids while sintered stainless steel filter
elements are preferentially wetted by water)
  Ø 8 mm
  Ø 12 mm
  Ø 6 mm
metal measuring
probe
porous teflon filter or
sintered metal filter
liquid film
suction flow rate
