4  Experimental Devices, Internals and Measuring Technique
60
The water that flowed counter currently to the particle phase in the column was pumped to the
inlet above the active part of the column with a piston pump. A small portion 
 of the total
water pumped to the water inlet was used for removing the rigid spheres, while the main portion
 flowed downwards in the column, see figure (4.5). Both liquid and particle flow rates
, 
, 
 and 
 were continuously measured. This was achieved by temporarily
diverting the flows to beakers and measuring the weight and volume collected in a certain time
interval. Steady state conditions were reached when all volume flows remained constant for an
hour. The liquid level in the column was controlled by a weir.
The hold-up of rigid spheres within the active part of the column was determined using two slide
valves. The slide valves were pneumatically opened and closed. After both valves were closed,
the spheres accumulated beneath the upper valve. By determining the height of the particle bed
beneath the upper valve 
, the hold-up 
 within the active part of the column was
calculated by: 
 where 
(4.1)
Here, 
 is the active height of the column and 
 is the volume fraction of the spheres
within the densely packed bed, which is known from preliminary tests. The special design of
the closing plates inside the valves allowed the rigid pp-spheres to be held back but not the water
phase. Thereby, the entire quantity of particles within the active column section could be
transported under the upper slide valve with the help of a pulsator or agitators. Figure (A.4) in
the appendix illustrates the various closing plates used to determine the hold-up, see chapter A.
Although PVC, aluminium and silicon were used as construction materials, only chemically
resistant materials were used for all other column elements. For the single drop mini plant and
the drop swarm extractor, which will be introduced in the following section, only teflon, glass
and stainless steel were used for all column parts which contacted the liquids. 
4.4
Drop Swarm Extractor
The influence of hold-up on fluiddynamics and mass transfer of drop swarms was investigated
in the extractor illustrated in figure (4.6). A scheme of the entire extraction plant including the
distillation column for the regeneration of the solvent is given in the appendix, see chapter A.
Pulsed and agitated experiments were carried out in the extractor with different types of column
V·
wb
V·
wc
V·
wc
V·
wb
V·
we
V·
p
Hpb
hd
hd
Hpb hpb
⋅
Hac
= ----------------------
Hac
2000 mm
=
Hac
hpb
